docs/SSO_Setup_Notes.md, before:

How to enable SSO on a McKinsey/solutions devstack:

# Prerequisites

* Cypress devstack or newer
* Working SAML Identity provider (e.g. testshib.org - more on it later)

# Step 0: Nginx forwarding rules

In production and QA instances, LMS is not directly available - all requests are forwarded via nginx reverse proxy.
Third party auth requests, however, need to get to LMS, so the following nginx rules must be added (if not already
there):

```
server {
    server_name apros.mcka.local;
    # other config settings

    # this rule exists - given here to describe where to place the following rule
    location /api/ {
        try_files $uri @proxy_to_lms_app;
    }

    # this rule needs to be added
    location /auth/ {
        try_files $uri @proxy_to_lms_app;
    }

    # other config settings...

    # this rule already exists, but have different header values set
    location @proxy_to_lms_app {
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-Proto $scheme;
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-Port $server_port;
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $remote_addr;
        proxy_set_header Host $http_host;

        proxy_redirect off;
        proxy_pass http://localhost:8000;
    }
}
```

See [diff][mcka-nginx-docs-diff] for details

[mcka-nginx-docs-diff]: https://github.com/mckinseyacademy/mcka_apros/pull/1189/files#diff-5aec1846a9816293ba7fc9aef3a46686R55

# Step 1: Enable Third Party Auth feature

To enable Third Party Auth feature and configure LMS as SAML Service Provider follow the [official edX guide][tpa-docs]
on enabling third party auth. Caveats:

* Make sure you're actually running Cypress release or newer - edx-platform/common/djangoapps should contain
   `third_party_auth` application.
* If running on solutions fork, make sure [notifications feature conflict][notifications-conflict] is resolved.
  Otherwise, disable the notifications feature in lms.env.json -> FEATURES -> `'ENABLE_NOTIFICATIONS': false`.
* [Exchange Metadata][metadata-exchange] section speaks about exchanging metadata with identity provider: in
  development you might want to use testshib - see the [Testshib Configuration][testshib-configuration] section.
* Identity Provider might not provide a URL LMS can use to fetch metadata, but allows exporting metadata. If that's
  the case, leave "Metadata Source" field empty (if fails validation - set any value). In such case, it is possible to
  set up provider data manually:
  * Go to LMS admin -> Third Party Auth -> Provider Data -> Add new Entry.
  * Fetch Date and Time are irrelevant - set to "Today" and "Now"
  * Expiry Date and Time - set to some arbitrary date in far future (e.g. 5-10 years)
  * Entity Id - get this from metadata file, should be in the `entityId` attribute of `EntityDescriptor` element
    (XPath: //EntityDescriptor[@entityId])
  * SSO URL - leave empty
  * Public key - get this from metadata file - looks like a X509Certificate - a long blob of seemingly random text.
    There might be two of them - you're likely need the one under `IDPSSODescriptor` tag (but that's not verified - so
    far I only had metadata with all certificates equal). XPath: //IDPSSODescriptor//X509Certificate/text()

[tpa-docs]: http://edx.readthedocs.org/projects/edx-installing-configuring-and-running/en/named-release-cypress/configuration/tpa/index.html
[notifications-conflict]: https://openedx.atlassian.net/browse/YONK-148
[metadata-exchange]: http://edx.readthedocs.org/projects/edx-installing-configuring-and-running/en/named-release-cypress/configuration/tpa/tpa_SAML_IdP.html#exchange-metadata
[testshib-configuration]: #testshib-configuration

## Testshib integration

To use testshib as an identity provider, do the following:

1. Configure LMS as Service Provider.
2. Export LMS metadata to a file with a unique name (go to `lms_address/auth/saml/metadata.xml`, save as file)
3. Register the exported metadata with testshib at [Testshib Register page][testshib-register]
4. [Add LMS Identity Provider][lms-add-idp], using testshib [metadata URL][testshib-metadata] as Metadata Source.
5. Set `Email Attribute` to `urn:oid:1.3.6.1.4.1.5923.1.1.1`


[testshib-register]: https://www.testshib.org/register.html
[lms-add-idp]: http://edx.readthedocs.org/projects/edx-installing-configuring-and-running/en/named-release-cypress/configuration/tpa/tpa_SAML_IdP.html#add-and-enable-a-saml-identity-provider
[testshib-metadata]: https://www.testshib.org/metadata/testshib-providers.xml

# Step 2: Enable sharing cookies between LMS and Apros

*(This step is not required on production or if your devstack is configured to access Apros and parts of the LMS using the same domain.)*

By default, LMS sets session cookie at current LMS domain, governed by `SITE_NAME` setting. In order to make LMS session
detection by Apros work, cookies must be shared between LMS and Apros. To do so, edit lms.env.json, so that
`LMS_COOKIE_DOMAIN` contains wildcard that matches both LMS and Apros domains (i.e. if used standard Apros setup,
`.mcka.local` should work just fine)

Then make the corresponding change to Apros in `mcka_apros/local_settings.py`, by adding `LMS_SESSION_COOKIE_DOMAIN = '.mcka.local'`

# Step 3: Wire Apros registration form into LMS third party authentication pilpeline

In `~/lms.auth.json`, configure the LMS to integrate with Apros by adding the following setting. Adjust `mcka.local` to match the domain name you are using for Apros.

```
"THIRD_PARTY_AUTH_CUSTOM_AUTH_FORMS": {
    "apros": {
        "secret_key": "1private_apros_key",
        "url": "http://apros.mcka.local/accounts/finalize/",
        "error_url": "http://apros.mcka.local/accounts/sso_error/",
        "link_by_email": true
    }
}
```


# Using SSO

1. To use SSO it is necessary first to go into the Apros Client Admin screen at `(apros)/admin/clients/`, then find the client you wish to link to an IdP. Click the pencil icon to edit that client, and set the "Identity Provider" value to same the "IDP Slug" value seen in the LMS SAML admin at `(LMS)/admin/third_party_auth/samlproviderconfig/`.
1. Next, create an access key for that client: From the Apros admin screen, go to Companies > (Company Name) > Access, which should bring you to `(apros)/admin/clients/(client_ID)/access_keys`. Click "Create Course Access Key". Complete the form and save the access key URL that is given.
1. In an incognito window, open the access key URL. It should redirect you to that company's SSO provider, then upon successful login, allow you to complete the registration form on the Apros site. After that point, it will enroll you into any courses specified by the access key.
1. After a user has created an account using an access key, that user will be able to use SSO to login again from the SSO option on `/accounts/login/`. Using that login method before creating an account with an access key will not work, and will result in the error "This email is not associated with any identity provider."

# Skipping the registration form

To skip the registration form for certain trusted identity providers, configure the `SSO_AUTOPROVISION_PROVIDERS` and `SSO_AUTOPROVISION_CITY` Apros django settings [as described in settings.py](https://github.com/mckinseyacademy/mcka_apros/blob/8eb09f6510c12b1d90d1c470de4bd2c04f5c0117/mcka_apros/settings.py#L206-L214).

# Troubleshooting

## SSO works when initiated from LMS, but fails when initiated from Apros

Error message in LMS console:

    x509vfy.c:408(xmlSecOpenSSLX509StoreVerify) obj=x509-store msg=err=18;msg=self signed certificate errno=71"

Root cause: the message says that LMS was unable to confirm authentication request signature.

Solutions:

1. Check that metadata registered with Identity Provider is up to date and redo the handshake and metadata exchange if needed.
2. Make sure that `RESPECT_X_FORWARDED_HEADERS` Django setting is set to true ([explanation][x-forwarded])

[x-forwarded]: https://github.com/edx-solutions/edx-platform/blob/e4c60fad4be5cd2ffaca73c1e735e888c07899af/common/djangoapps/third_party_auth/strategy.py#L65-L66

## After SSO in Apros user is not logged in and redirected to main page

Root cause: Apros session was not set properly.

Solution: make sure 3rd party cookies are allowed for Apros, Identity Provider and LMS


## Logging in via TestShib fails with "Something horrible happened - check the IdP error log".

If the error log says 

> WARN... Relying party '...' requested the response to be returned to endpoint with ACS URL 
'http://apros.mcka.local/auth/complete/tpa-saml/'  and binding 'urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:bindings:HTTP-POST' however 
no endpoint, with that URL and using a supported binding,  can be found in the relying party's metadata 

then the problem is that you downloaded the metadata from some domain like `localhost:8000` but you are testing SSO using the domain `lms.mcka.local`.

To fix this, download the metadata from `http://apros.mcka.local/auth/saml/metadata.xml` (not any other URL), 
and upload that to TestShib, then use the access key or Apros login form to try again.

## Error at /auth/complete/tpa-saml/: failed to decrypt

Something is wrong with the public/private key pair you created for the LMS. Generate a new one and install it, 
then re-generate the metadata XML and re-upload it to TestShib (but use the same .xml file name).

## SAML login failed: ['invalid_response'] (The response was received at `http://apros.mcka.local:8000/auth/complete/tpa-saml/` instead of `http://apros.mcka.local/auth/complete/tpa-saml/`)

You need to set `RESPECT_X_FORWARDED_HEADERS = True` in `lms/envs/private.py` (create that file if it doesn't exist).

Commit message:

Rename "Access Keys" tab to SSO Rename access_keys url to sso Rename /sso/create to /sso/create-access-key to be less ambiguous Move IdP configuration from client edit page to the new SSO page

docs/SSO_Setup_Notes.md, after:

How to enable SSO on a McKinsey/solutions devstack:

# Prerequisites

* Cypress devstack or newer
* Working SAML Identity provider (e.g. testshib.org - more on it later)

# Step 0: Nginx forwarding rules

In production and QA instances, LMS is not directly available - all requests are forwarded via nginx reverse proxy.
Third party auth requests, however, need to get to LMS, so the following nginx rules must be added (if not already
there):

```
server {
    server_name apros.mcka.local;
    # other config settings

    # this rule exists - given here to describe where to place the following rule
    location /api/ {
        try_files $uri @proxy_to_lms_app;
    }

    # this rule needs to be added
    location /auth/ {
        try_files $uri @proxy_to_lms_app;
    }

    # other config settings...

    # this rule already exists, but have different header values set
    location @proxy_to_lms_app {
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-Proto $scheme;
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-Port $server_port;
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $remote_addr;
        proxy_set_header Host $http_host;

        proxy_redirect off;
        proxy_pass http://localhost:8000;
    }
}
```

See [diff][mcka-nginx-docs-diff] for details

[mcka-nginx-docs-diff]: https://github.com/mckinseyacademy/mcka_apros/pull/1189/files#diff-5aec1846a9816293ba7fc9aef3a46686R55

# Step 1: Enable Third Party Auth feature

To enable Third Party Auth feature and configure LMS as SAML Service Provider follow the [official edX guide][tpa-docs]
on enabling third party auth. Caveats:

* Make sure you're actually running Cypress release or newer - edx-platform/common/djangoapps should contain
   `third_party_auth` application.
* If running on solutions fork, make sure [notifications feature conflict][notifications-conflict] is resolved.
  Otherwise, disable the notifications feature in lms.env.json -> FEATURES -> `'ENABLE_NOTIFICATIONS': false`.
* [Exchange Metadata][metadata-exchange] section speaks about exchanging metadata with identity provider: in
  development you might want to use testshib - see the [Testshib Configuration][testshib-configuration] section.
* Identity Provider might not provide a URL LMS can use to fetch metadata, but allows exporting metadata. If that's
  the case, leave "Metadata Source" field empty (if fails validation - set any value). In such case, it is possible to
  set up provider data manually:
  * Go to LMS admin -> Third Party Auth -> Provider Data -> Add new Entry.
  * Fetch Date and Time are irrelevant - set to "Today" and "Now"
  * Expiry Date and Time - set to some arbitrary date in far future (e.g. 5-10 years)
  * Entity Id - get this from metadata file, should be in the `entityId` attribute of `EntityDescriptor` element
    (XPath: //EntityDescriptor[@entityId])
  * SSO URL - leave empty
  * Public key - get this from metadata file - looks like a X509Certificate - a long blob of seemingly random text.
    There might be two of them - you're likely need the one under `IDPSSODescriptor` tag (but that's not verified - so
    far I only had metadata with all certificates equal). XPath: //IDPSSODescriptor//X509Certificate/text()

[tpa-docs]: http://edx.readthedocs.org/projects/edx-installing-configuring-and-running/en/named-release-cypress/configuration/tpa/index.html
[notifications-conflict]: https://openedx.atlassian.net/browse/YONK-148
[metadata-exchange]: http://edx.readthedocs.org/projects/edx-installing-configuring-and-running/en/named-release-cypress/configuration/tpa/tpa_SAML_IdP.html#exchange-metadata
[testshib-configuration]: #testshib-configuration

## Testshib integration

To use testshib as an identity provider, do the following:

1. Configure LMS as Service Provider.
2. Export LMS metadata to a file with a unique name (go to `lms_address/auth/saml/metadata.xml`, save as file)
3. Register the exported metadata with testshib at [Testshib Register page][testshib-register]
4. [Add LMS Identity Provider][lms-add-idp], using testshib [metadata URL][testshib-metadata] as Metadata Source.
5. Set `Email Attribute` to `urn:oid:1.3.6.1.4.1.5923.1.1.1`


[testshib-register]: https://www.testshib.org/register.html
[lms-add-idp]: http://edx.readthedocs.org/projects/edx-installing-configuring-and-running/en/named-release-cypress/configuration/tpa/tpa_SAML_IdP.html#add-and-enable-a-saml-identity-provider
[testshib-metadata]: https://www.testshib.org/metadata/testshib-providers.xml

# Step 2: Enable sharing cookies between LMS and Apros

*(This step is not required on production or if your devstack is configured to access Apros and parts of the LMS using the same domain.)*

By default, LMS sets session cookie at current LMS domain, governed by `SITE_NAME` setting. In order to make LMS session
detection by Apros work, cookies must be shared between LMS and Apros. To do so, edit lms.env.json, so that
`LMS_COOKIE_DOMAIN` contains wildcard that matches both LMS and Apros domains (i.e. if used standard Apros setup,
`.mcka.local` should work just fine)

Then make the corresponding change to Apros in `mcka_apros/local_settings.py`, by adding `LMS_SESSION_COOKIE_DOMAIN = '.mcka.local'`

# Step 3: Wire Apros registration form into LMS third party authentication pipeline

In `~/lms.auth.json`, configure the LMS to integrate with Apros by adding the following setting. Adjust `mcka.local` to match the domain name you are using for Apros.

```
"THIRD_PARTY_AUTH_CUSTOM_AUTH_FORMS": {
    "apros": {
        "secret_key": "1private_apros_key",
        "url": "http://apros.mcka.local/accounts/finalize/",
        "error_url": "http://apros.mcka.local/accounts/sso_error/",
        "link_by_email": true
    }
}
```


# Using SSO

1. To use SSO it is necessary first to go into the Apros Client Admin screen at `(apros)/admin/clients/`, and click on 
   the client you wish to link to an IdP. In the Client Overview page click on "SSO" in the navigation menu. Here you 
   will see a field for the "Identity Provider", you should set this value to the same the "IDP Slug" value seen in the 
   LMS SAML admin at `(LMS)/admin/third_party_auth/samlproviderconfig/`, and hit "Save". A green check mark should 
   appear in the text field to indicate success.  
1. Next, create an access key for that client: From the Apros admin screen, go to Companies > (Company Name) > Access, 
   which should bring you to `(apros)/admin/clients/(client_ID)/sso`. Click "Create Course Access Key". Complete the 
   form and save the access key URL that is given.
1. In an incognito window, open the access key URL. It should redirect you to that company's SSO provider, then upon 
   successful login, allow you to complete the registration form on the Apros site. After that point, it will enroll 
   you into any courses specified by the access key.
1. After a user has created an account using an access key, that user will be able to use SSO to login again from the 
   SSO option on `/accounts/login/`. Using that login method before creating an account with an access key will not 
   work, and will result in the error "This email is not associated with any identity provider."

# Skipping the registration form

To skip the registration form for certain trusted identity providers, configure the `SSO_AUTOPROVISION_PROVIDERS` and `SSO_AUTOPROVISION_CITY` Apros django settings [as described in settings.py](https://github.com/mckinseyacademy/mcka_apros/blob/8eb09f6510c12b1d90d1c470de4bd2c04f5c0117/mcka_apros/settings.py#L206-L214).

# Troubleshooting

## SSO works when initiated from LMS, but fails when initiated from Apros

Error message in LMS console:

    x509vfy.c:408(xmlSecOpenSSLX509StoreVerify) obj=x509-store msg=err=18;msg=self signed certificate errno=71"

Root cause: the message says that LMS was unable to confirm authentication request signature.

Solutions:

1. Check that metadata registered with Identity Provider is up to date and redo the handshake and metadata exchange if needed.
2. Make sure that `RESPECT_X_FORWARDED_HEADERS` Django setting is set to true ([explanation][x-forwarded])

[x-forwarded]: https://github.com/edx-solutions/edx-platform/blob/e4c60fad4be5cd2ffaca73c1e735e888c07899af/common/djangoapps/third_party_auth/strategy.py#L65-L66

## After SSO in Apros user is not logged in and redirected to main page

Root cause: Apros session was not set properly.

Solution: make sure 3rd party cookies are allowed for Apros, Identity Provider and LMS


## Logging in via TestShib fails with "Something horrible happened - check the IdP error log".

If the error log says 

> WARN... Relying party '...' requested the response to be returned to endpoint with ACS URL 
'http://apros.mcka.local/auth/complete/tpa-saml/'  and binding 'urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:bindings:HTTP-POST' however 
no endpoint, with that URL and using a supported binding,  can be found in the relying party's metadata 

then the problem is that you downloaded the metadata from some domain like `localhost:8000` but you are testing SSO using the domain `lms.mcka.local`.

To fix this, download the metadata from `http://apros.mcka.local/auth/saml/metadata.xml` (not any other URL), 
and upload that to TestShib, then use the access key or Apros login form to try again.

## Error at /auth/complete/tpa-saml/: failed to decrypt

Something is wrong with the public/private key pair you created for the LMS. Generate a new one and install it, 
then re-generate the metadata XML and re-upload it to TestShib (but use the same .xml file name).

## SAML login failed: ['invalid_response'] (The response was received at `http://apros.mcka.local:8000/auth/complete/tpa-saml/` instead of `http://apros.mcka.local/auth/complete/tpa-saml/`)

You need to set `RESPECT_X_FORWARDED_HEADERS = True` in `lms/envs/private.py` (create that file if it doesn't exist).
